Mile Marker 158

Marco is 28 years old and quite handsome. Tall. Italian. Startling green eyes, little goatee.  He is restless. 
Always pacing, back and forth on the path between the condos, talking loud on the phone, gesturing with his 
free hand, pointing and grabbing from thin air. I’m attracted to the guy but also leery and cautious; there’s 
obviously a lot going on beneath that loud Italian surface. He is looking for work, has done sales and worked 
in a restaurant until recently. Somebody used their clients’ credit cards on his shift and he got sacked... hmmmmm....

Marco lives in the same condo complex that I have lived in for the past 7 years. We met because of our kids; 
Marco has a little boy, Zach, who was driving a kid’s mini car through the alley, and my son Alex wanted to 
have his turn. We did what parents do: watch the kids play and start talking. From then on Marco stops by my 
house irregularly.

One evening as we’re hanging out on the patio, I ask him: ‘What inspires you?’  His green eyes light up. 
He perks himself at the edge of his seat and then in an excited but subdued tone says: “I really want to 
climb Mount Everest...” He shows me theunfinished tattoo of Mount Everest on his left arm. Somehow his answer 
doesn’t surprise me. When I take time to ask and listen to what people really want, there’s typically 
something big they want to do, don’t get to do, can’t muster the courage to do, or they feel that circumstances 
prevent them from doing it. I like knowing what makes people tick, their dreams... I can then listen for those dreams.

For July 4th, we make a trip to Grand Lake, Colorado. Go camping, fishing, hiking, watch the fireworks etc. 
My single mom neighbor Jeni - whom I hit it off with at the pool -, her 2 daughters and her mom Fran come along, 
and Marco with a friend from Denver join too. Also our dogs: my little Jack Russell named Crystal and Marco’s 
big Pit Bull named Crash. Both Zach and Alex are not on this trip, they are spending time with their other parents. 
All in all, a fairly light load. It’s been a Colorado monsoon for a few weeks, and I wonder how it’ll turn out.

Things go quite well. No rain. Quite well until the evening of the 4th. Both Jeni and Fran have to go back to work 
the next day, but Marco and his friend want to stay and party. I watch this going on till about 10pm and by that 
time they are both trashed. I decide it’s time to pack up and head home. It is about a 3 hour drive.

In the back seat, the friend passes out within 10 min. Marco sits next to me and is in peculiar state of mind. 
Quiet. I ask him what is on his mind. He starts to talk. He tells me that he knows he can be a pain in the ass 
and that he lies. He doesn’t want to get too close. All the people he has gotten close to, have died. He then 
tells me about a horrendous car accident when he was 19. He was in the car with his parents and grandparents. 
He had a fight with his dad, and the last thing he yelled at his dad was: “I hate you!!”. Right after that the 
accident happened. He lost everybody but his mom. So he won’t get close...

I mostly listen. I tell him I know he has been lying, and that I appreciate his honesty now. That he can consider 
me a friend. He turns to me and says ‘You’re kinda this weird mixture between my mom and a girlfriend’. Then he passes out.

We get to Denver, and his friend waddles home from the car. Marco takes a leak.
He gets back in the car, extends the back of the seat and conks out again. I buckle his belt.

It’s 1:10am. Marco and the dogs are sound asleep. Over the continental divide, almost home and it starts pouring again! 
I have to slow down considerably to be able to see the road. At mile marker 158, we hit standing water on the interstate. 
Oh shit. My car suddenly goes as fast backwards as we were driving forward earlier. 
I remember thinking: ‘This it is, we’re done’. We apparently hit a guard rail; then we fly. I don’t like roller coaster rides. 
I hang on to the steering wheel and keep my eyes closed till it stops. When it stops, we are upside down. Surprised I am here. 
My hands still clasped on the steering wheel for dear life. I check to see how Marco is. He comes to and gets out of the car 
but doesn’t help me. I fade for a while.My right hand isn’t working but somehow I manage to undo my buckle, crawl out of the 
car and sit in the rain in the grass against my car. I see a bottle of ketchup in the grass very close to me. I’m dizzy and can’t move.

Marco is above me on the high end of the grassy slope, pacing along the guard rail. He is on the phone, talking with 
his one free hand as much as with his voice. That image I’ll never forget.

Emergency crew show up. Marco stays behind; he tells them he is ok.  Some other motorists have stopped and are taking our dogs. 
I am strapped to a spine board and off to the hospital I go.

I get away with a broken hand, some severe bruising and a whiplash - I am still grateful for the cage strength of that Saturn Vue. 
As I’m in the hospital, I am more concerned about Marco’s mental well-being than my own health. The weird stupid coincidence of 
it all; really, another freak accident?  Once I am with it enough, I call him a couple of times and leave messages. He never visits 
me in the hospital.

I get home 4 days later and see Marco twice. We file a report with the insurance, and he has some items to claim. I get a payment 
from my car insurance within a couple of days and I pay him his share.

Shortly after this, I leave to go stay with my parents for a while. When I get back, Marco is gone.

We got too close...